Metasploit is a penetration testing framework that is essential tool for many attackers and defenders.

!!Don't learn Metasploit by pointing it at other's network. That would be illegal.

It is ruby based framework  that gives us a really easy way for interacting with host of exploits,scanners and post exploitation.

It offers payloads, exploits, encoders, etc.
An exploit is a code written to take advantage of vulnerability.
Payload is code to be executed through exploit.

These all stuff are basically some ruby scripts.
Metasploit is on github and you can see every part of its library,etc.

MSF architecture---
-MSF file system
--Data,Lib,Modules,Plugins,Scripts,Tools.
-Libraries
--REX(Ruby extension library)
---handles sockets, protocols, text transformations, etc.,, SSL, SMB, HTTP, XOR, Base64, unicode.
--MSF:Core
---Basic API, Define metasploit framework
--MSF:Base
---makes interacting with MSF core.
---we basically use it.

Modules-Payload__
-Single
--Self contained payload
-Stagers
--Setup connection between attacker and victim.Designed to be small and reliable and transfer payload in pieces.
-Stage
--Payload components


Commands
msfconsole- load metasploit console
banner- generate random banner
load - to load plugin, ex: load pcap_log
info - information about loaded module
help - ---
kill - kill modules running in background
sessions - list active shell sessions, vnc sessions, etc.
options - --
help command
search exploit_name
workspace 
workspace -a sam
workspace default
creds -- to manually add identified credentials to the database
creds add user:admin password:secret
db_nmap ipaddress  -T5 -O -sV
then nmap result will saved to database

hosts -will print the data stored in database

search module ;;;;;;;;;;;;;   ex:  search google
use module_name_with_complete_path
info -- now it will give detail information about loaded exploit

To connect to ip address of remotehost
set RHOSTS ip_address

We can run nmap form it.



Database 
to store information from msf use
service postgresql start
msfdb init

we can store nmap scans, username, etc.






Writing our own script:
goto Metasploit/auxiliary/scanner
make new directory "helloworld"
create new file "helloworld.rb"

