Name : Samyak Jain
Position : Member
Wing : Cybersecurity

April : 
1.How to use live usb to get any file from your friend's system
2.Used Tor browser and see how it works.
3.Learn basic commands of terminal like locate,find,ping,links and many more.
4.Attempts ctfs by IIITA and Oters.

May :
1.Learn about many os and analyse them for better performance Ubuntu,Kali kde,Kali,Parrot,Linux mint,Deepin and android too.
2.Planning - Download networking and many other tutorial by Udemy for learning in holidays.
3.Start to learn python language.


June :

1.Submit assignment on github by Shivendra Sir.
2.How to hack wifi using wifite and how to analyse and crack password with wordlist.
3.Find a way to use Windows 10 partitions to copy and paste in Linux because by default we have only read access-(wasted some time in it).
4.Learn python and bash for scripting purpose.
5.See tutorial to use proxychain,macchanger in linux.
6.Basics of SQLi and steganography.
7.Learn Linux Commands.
8.Attempt CTFs.



July :
1.How to use Google Dorks for efficient searching.
2.How to use adb to install any app(may be a system app) on an android.
3.Read about different attacks Ddos, MITM, SQLi and see video examples.
4.Some Basics of Tools - Radare2, msfconsole and its gui Armitage, Ettercap, Nmap and its gui Zenmap, Wireshark.
5.Have attempts some of ctf questions of PicoCtf which was not done during live ctf and will try those left.
6.Try to understand assembly for reversing and  also tried some ctf in which almost unable to find flags but seen few writeups whenever leaves in a good mood :).
7.Do assignment on Github given by Shivendra Sir.
8.how to hack windows7 using sticky key option as command prompt.
9.Learn to use social enginnering toolkit only for dns spoofing for connected virtual machine for old windows7 and their practical left.
10.Currently trying to understand and practice pentesting and also how to how to send payload etc.and I think I will get the output until college reopens.



Some of the CTFs i have attend but don't remind is not in evalution as I have changed my laptop recently and history data not present.